README.md, before:

# py-pdf-compress
![Made with Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-a?logo=python&label=Made%20With&color=blue&style=for-the-badge)
![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Harry-Skerritt/PDF-CLI-Compressor?style=for-the-badge)
![GitHub code size in bytes](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/Harry-Skerritt/PDF-CLI-Compressor?style=for-the-badge)
![Runs on Mac](https://img.shields.io/badge/Mac-OS?logo=apple&color=%23555555&style=for-the-badge)
![Runs on Linux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linux-OS?logo=linux&color=orange&style=for-the-badge)
![Runs on Windows](https://img.shields.io/badge/Windows-OS?logo=windows&color=blue&style=for-the-badge)

---

Uses Ghostscript to compress all PDFs within a directory!

*Originally written as a quick tool for personal use, but added to, for ease of use*

<br>

# Installing the Tool
Below are instructions to install *py-pdf-compress* and its dependencies

## Requirements
* Python 3.10+
* Ghostscript


## To install the Ghostscript:
**MacOS**

```bash
brew install ghostscript
```

**Linux**

```bash
sudo apt install ghostscript
```

**Windows**

```bash
choco install ghostscript
```


## Installing py-pdf-compress
This tool is installed using **pipx**

### Install pipx
**MacOS / Linux**

```bash
brew install pipx
pipx ensurepath
```

**Windows**

```bash
python -m pip install --user pipx
python -m pipx ensurepath
```

### Installing from GitHub
Once **pipx** is installed, running:

```bash
pipx install git+https://github.com/Harry-Skerritt/py-pdf-compress.git
```
**This should successfully install the tool!**

---
<br>

# Using the Tool

Once installed, the tool can be used as instructed below!

## Running the Script
Navigate to your directory containing the PDFs you wish to compress using the command line, and run

```bash
py-pdf-compress
```

This will run the script with the standard quality of 2!


### Output
All the compressed files will be located at:```{CURRENT_DIRECTORY}/out```

## Quality Flag
You can use the `--quality` flag to specify the quality of your compressed PDF.

| Quality Tag    | Quality / Size | Ghostscript Preset |
| -------------- | ----------------- | --------------- |
| `--quality 1`  | lowest / smallest | /screen         |
| `--quality 2`  | good / small      | /ebook          |
| `--quality 3`  | high / big        | /printer        |
| `--quality 4`  | best / largest    | /prepress       |

### Example Useage 

```bash
py-pdf-compress --quality 2
```


## Possible Additions
* Neaten up of the code
* More efficient code
* ~~Make it easier to use~~ **Done** through use of pipx and the command line tool

Commit message:

Added to pypi and updated readme

README.md, after:

# py-pdf-compress
![Made with Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-a?logo=python&label=Made%20With&color=blue&style=for-the-badge)
![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Harry-Skerritt/PDF-CLI-Compressor?style=for-the-badge)
![GitHub code size in bytes](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/Harry-Skerritt/PDF-CLI-Compressor?style=for-the-badge)
![Runs on Mac](https://img.shields.io/badge/Mac-OS?logo=apple&color=%23555555&style=for-the-badge)
![Runs on Linux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linux-OS?logo=linux&color=orange&style=for-the-badge)
![Runs on Windows](https://img.shields.io/badge/Windows-OS?logo=windows&color=blue&style=for-the-badge)

---

Uses Ghostscript to compress all PDFs within a directory!

*Originally written as a quick tool for personal use, but added to, for ease of use*

<br>

# Installing the Tool
Below are instructions to install *py-pdf-compress* and its dependencies

## Requirements
* Python 3.10+
* Ghostscript


## Installing Ghostscript:
**MacOS**

```bash
brew install ghostscript
```

**Linux**

```bash
sudo apt install ghostscript
```

**Windows**

```bash
choco install ghostscript
```


## Installing py-pdf-compress
This tool can either be installed diretcly from [pypi](### Installing using pip) using *pip* or *pip3*, or it can be installed from [GitHub](### Installing from GitHub) using **pipx**

### Installing using pip
---
To install using pip run the command

```bash
pip install py-pdf-compress
```

<br>

### Installing from GitHub

This requires **pipx**

#### Installing pipx
---

**MacOS / Linux**

```bash
brew install pipx
pipx ensurepath
```

**Windows**

```bash
python -m pip install --user pipx
python -m pipx ensurepath
```

### 
Once **pipx** is installed, running:

```bash
pipx install git+https://github.com/Harry-Skerritt/py-pdf-compress.git
```
**This should successfully install the tool!**

---
<br>

# Using the Tool

Once installed, the tool can be used as instructed below!

## Running the Script
Navigate to your directory containing the PDFs you wish to compress using the command line, and run

```bash
py-pdf-compress
```

This will run the script with the standard quality of 2!


### Output
All the compressed files will be located at:```{CURRENT_DIRECTORY}/out```

## Quality Flag
You can use the `--quality` flag to specify the quality of your compressed PDF.

| Quality Tag    | Quality / Size | Ghostscript Preset |
| -------------- | ----------------- | --------------- |
| `--quality 1`  | lowest / smallest | /screen         |
| `--quality 2`  | good / small      | /ebook          |
| `--quality 3`  | high / big        | /printer        |
| `--quality 4`  | best / largest    | /prepress       |

### Example Useage 

```bash
py-pdf-compress --quality 2
```


## Possible Additions
* Neaten up of the code
* More efficient code
* ~~Make it easier to use~~ **Done** through use of pipx and the command line tool
